                    
# Information technology

> **Information technology** (**IT**) is the use of [computers](/wiki/Computer "Computer") to create, process, store, retrieve, and exchange all kinds of [data](/wiki/Data_(computing) "Data (computing)")[\[1\]](#cite_note-DOP-1) and [information](/wiki/Information "Information"). IT is typically used within the context of [business operations](/wiki/Business_operations "Business operations") as opposed to personal or [entertainment technologies](/wiki/Entertainment_technologies "Entertainment technologies").[\[2\]](#cite_note-2) IT forms part of [information and communications technology](/wiki/Information_and_communications_technology "Information and communications technology") (ICT). [\[3\]](#cite_note-3)An **information technology system** (**IT system**) is generally an [information system](/wiki/Information_system "Information system"), a [communications system](/wiki/Communications_system "Communications system"), or, more specifically speaking, a [computer system](/wiki/Computer "Computer") — including all [hardware](/wiki/Computer_hardware "Computer hardware"), [software](/wiki/Software "Software"), and [peripheral](/wiki/Peripheral "Peripheral") equipment — operated by a limited group of IT users.

# Difference between Computer Science and Informatics?


## Computer Science
>Computer science is the study of the theory, experimentation, and engineering that form the basis for the design and use of computers. It is the scientific and practical approach to computation and its applications and the systematic study of the feasibility, structure, expression, and mechanization of the methodical procedures (or algorithms) that underlie the acquisition, representation, processing, storage, communication of, and access to information. An alternate, more succinct definition of computer science is the study of automating algorithmic processes that scale. A computer scientist specializes in the theory of computation and the design of computational systems.

source: Computer Science @ Wikipedia

## Informatics
>Informatics is a branch of information engineering. It involves the practice of information processing and the engineering of information systems, and as an academic field it is an applied form of information science. The field considers the interaction between humans and information alongside the construction of interfaces, organisations, technologies and systems. As such, the field of informatics has great breadth and encompasses many subspecialties, including disciplines of computer science, information systems, information technology and statistics. Since the advent of computers, individuals and organizations increasingly process information digitally. This has led to the study of informatics with computational, mathematical, biological, cognitive and social aspects, including study of the social impact of information technologies.

source: Informatics @ Wikipedia

# Software Development
> **Software development** is the process of conceiving, specifying, designing, [programming](/wiki/Computer_programming "Computer programming"), [documenting](/wiki/Software_documentation "Software documentation"), [testing](/wiki/Software_testing "Software testing"), and [bug fixing](/wiki/Software_bugs "Software bugs") involved in creating and maintaining [applications](/wiki/Application_software "Application software"), [frameworks](/wiki/Software_framework "Software framework"), or other software components. [Software](/wiki/Software "Software") development involves writing and [maintaining](/wiki/Software_maintenance "Software maintenance") the [source code](/wiki/Source_code "Source code"), but in a broader sense, it includes all processes from the conception of the desired software through to the final manifestation of the software, typically in a planned and [structured](/wiki/Software_development_process "Software development process") process.[\[1\]](#cite_note-1) Software development also includes research, new development, prototyping, modification, reuse, re-engineering, maintenance, or any other activities that result in software products.[\[2\]](#cite_note-2)

## Software Engineering
> **Software engineering** is a systematic [engineering](/wiki/Engineering "Engineering") approach to [software development](/wiki/Software_development "Software development").[\[1\]](#cite_note-BoDu04-1)[\[2\]](#cite_note-ACM_2020-2)[\[3\]](#cite_note-Laplante_2007-3)

> A **software engineer** is a person who applies the principles of software engineering to design, develop, maintain, test, and evaluate [computer software](/wiki/Software "Software"). The term _[programmer](/wiki/Programmer "Programmer")_ is sometimes used as a synonym, but may also lack connotations of engineering education or skills.

Engineering techniques are used to inform\[_[clarification needed](/wiki/Wikipedia:Please_clarify "Wikipedia:Please clarify")_\] the [software development process](/wiki/Software_development_process "Software development process")[\[1\]](#cite_note-BoDu04-1)[\[4\]](#cite_note-swebookv3-4) which involves the definition, implementation, assessment, measurement, management, change, and improvement of the software life cycle process itself. It heavily uses [software configuration management](/wiki/Software_configuration_management "Software configuration management")[\[1\]](#cite_note-BoDu04-1)[\[4\]](#cite_note-swebookv3-4) which is about systematically controlling changes to the configuration, and maintaining the integrity and traceability of the configuration and code throughout the system life cycle. Modern processes use [software versioning](/wiki/Software_versioning "Software versioning").

## Agile software development

> In [software development](/wiki/Software_development "Software development"), **agile** (sometimes written **Agile**)[\[1\]](#cite_note-1) practices include requirements discovery and solutions improvement through the collaborative effort of [self-organizing](/wiki/Self-organizing_communities "Self-organizing communities") and [cross-functional](/wiki/Cross-functional_team "Cross-functional team") teams with their [customer(s)](/wiki/Customer "Customer")/[end user(s)](/wiki/End_user "End user"),[\[2\]](#cite_note-Collier_2011-2) adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, [continual improvement](/wiki/Continual_improvement_process "Continual improvement process"), and flexible responses to changes in requirements, capacity, and understanding of the problems to be solved.[\[3\]](#cite_note-Beck_Beedle_Bennekum_Cockburn_p.-3)[\[4\]](#cite_note-WhatIsAgile-4)

Popularized in the 2001 _Manifesto for Agile Software Development_,[\[5\]](#cite_note-AgileManifesto-5) these values and principles were derived from and underpin a broad range of [software development frameworks](/wiki/Software_development_process "Software development process"), including [Scrum](/wiki/Scrum_(software_development) "Scrum (software development)") and [Kanban](/wiki/Kanban_(development) "Kanban (development)").[\[6\]](#cite_note-6)[\[7\]](#cite_note-LarmanGuide-7)

## Scrum (software development)

> **Scrum**, or **SCRUM**, is a framework for project management,[\[1\]](#cite_note-1) with an initial emphasis on [software development](/wiki/Software_development "Software development"), although it has been used in other fields including research, sales, marketing and [advanced technologies](/wiki/High_tech "High tech").[\[2\]](#cite_note-2) It is designed for teams of ten or fewer members, who break their work into [goals](/wiki/Goal "Goal") that can be completed within time-boxed iterations, called _sprints_, no longer than one month and most commonly two weeks. The scrum team assesses progress in [time-boxed](/wiki/Timeboxing "Timeboxing") daily meetings of 15 minutes or fewer, called daily scrums (a form of [stand-up meeting](/wiki/Stand-up_meeting "Stand-up meeting")). At the end of the sprint, the team holds two further meetings: the sprint review which demonstrates the work done to [stakeholders](/wiki/Stakeholder_(corporate) "Stakeholder (corporate)") to elicit feedback, and [sprint retrospective](/wiki/Retrospective#Software_development "Retrospective") which enables the team to reflect and improve.

## Extreme programming

> **Extreme programming** (**XP**) is a [software development methodology](/wiki/Software_development_methodology "Software development methodology") intended to improve [software quality](/wiki/Software_quality "Software quality") and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. As a type of [agile software development](/wiki/Agile_software_development "Agile software development"),[\[1\]](#cite_note-Informatics85-1)[\[2\]](#cite_note-UPenn49-2)[\[3\]](#cite_note-USFCA601-3) it advocates frequent [releases](/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle "Software release life cycle") in short development cycles, intended to improve productivity and introduce checkpoints at which new customer requirements can be adopted.

Other elements of extreme programming include: programming [in pairs](/wiki/Pair_programming "Pair programming") or doing extensive [code review](/wiki/Code_review "Code review"), [unit testing](/wiki/Unit_testing "Unit testing") of all code, [not programming features until they are actually needed](/wiki/You_aren%27t_gonna_need_it "You aren't gonna need it"), a flat management structure, code simplicity and clarity, expecting changes in the customer's requirements as time passes and the problem is better understood, and frequent communication with the customer and among programmers.[\[2\]](#cite_note-UPenn49-2)[\[3\]](#cite_note-USFCA601-3)[\[4\]](#cite_note-MASD-4) The methodology takes its name from the idea that the beneficial elements of traditional software engineering practices are taken to "extreme" levels. As an example, [code reviews](/wiki/Code_review "Code review") are considered a beneficial practice; taken to the extreme, code can be reviewed _continuously_ (i.e. the practice of [pair programming](/wiki/Pair_programming "Pair programming")).
